## AirSkyBoat Changelog (2023-04-28)
- Player ids above 65535 will now be able to be a party leader and get proper results in "member list" requests from the menu (wintersolstice) [#3057], (WinterSolstice8)
- Fixed mobs immediately regenerating after disengaging. (abdiah) [#3056], (dallano)
- Battlefields from "waking the beast" will now be functional. (abdiah) [#3050], (dallano)
- Revert "removal of commit message sanity check" [#3049], (CriticalXI, Critical)
- Fixes the quest: "heaven cent" to be functional as well as added more functionality that was missing from the quest. (abdiah) [#3047], (dallano)
- Fixes each olla not updating claim between each stage (abdiah) [#3046], (dallano)
- Fixed players being unable to interact with the "reap what you sow" quest. (abdiah) [#3045], (dallano)
- Removal of commit message sanity check [#3044], (CriticalXI, Critical)
- Horizon cherry-pick: updated magic to check for immunities [#3043], (CriticalXI, Frankie-hz)
- Fixed multiple trion from spawning in the 9-2 mission "heir to the light" battlefield (abdiah) [#3042], (dallano)
- N/a. omit. [#3041], (CriticalXI, OpheliaXI)
- Fixes mobs in both battlefields, "requiem of sin" and "tango with a tracker" to now function properly when the battlefield is initiated. (abdiah) [#3040], (dallano)
- Fixes players not being able to spawn the nm for the quest: "confessions of a bellmaker" (abdiah) [#3036], (dallano)
- Come into my parlor now has the correct loot tables. (abdiah) spinel earrings will now desynth properly into spinel (abdiah) rune halberd now vendors for the correct price (abdiah) undying flames now takes beeswax when completing quest. (abdiah) reduced coral bangles vendor price to be accurate to wiki (abdiah) [#3035], (dallano)
- - vrtra has been tuned to better reflect era accuracy (frank) - stun resistance and sleep build resistance has been added to fafnir (frank) [#3033], (Frankie-hz)
- - unbroke the broken ah sales ordering that i broke. (frank) [#3032], (Frankie-hz)
- - fixes the type of message shown when an enfeebling duration hits 0 due to build resistance. (frank) [#3031], (Frankie-hz)
- _you read the patch note, but it turns out there was nothing all along. it was an illusion._ (wintersolstice) [#3030], (WinterSolstice8, Xaver-DaRed)
- - enfeebling spells will now properly calculate the duration with regards to its resist state (frank) [#3028], (Frankie-hz)
- Changelog fixes and adding update log [#3025], (Frankie-hz)
- Addresses issues where players may not be able to complete the bst flag quest line and af1-af3. [#3024], (hookstar)
- Treasure hunter now persists until the mob disengages or respawns. (wintersolstice) [#3023], (WinterSolstice8, InoUno)
- Created a module for adding custom treasure chests (loxley) [#2963], (LoxleyXI, Loxley)
- Addresses issues where players were unable to get correct cs's/dialog along with issues not being able to complete the quest series for whm af1-3. [#2933], (hookstar)
- Addresses issue where players were not able to complete lufets lake salt quest, and subsequent quest line. [#2929], (hookstar)
- Addresses issue where players may not be able to complete the quest sleepless nights. [#2928], (hookstar)
- Adjusted the parry formula to more appropriate era values. [#2916], (avogadro-war, mousseng)
