## AirSkyBoat Changelog (2023-10-11)
- Fixed droprates of rse satchets to be 10% from 0.5% (abdiah) [#3539], (dallano)
- Addresses multiple issues where players were unable to successfully complete parts of the quests, smn af1-3 questline. [#3537], (hookstar)
- Carbuncle's cuffs now have the correct mod for summoning magic casting time -1 [#3535], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Adjusted stat calculations of bst jug pets.  most noticeably pets will see a boost in evasion and defense. (tiberon) pld pets (crab, beetle) will see a very large defense boost. diremite pets wil see a very large attack boost. flytrap pets are no longer blms but have been correctly changed to war.  we can consider era+ing that for horizon. [#3533], (TiberonKalkaz, Tiberon)
- Happy halloween! (abdiah) [#3532], (dallano)
- - angra mainyu from dynamis-beaucedine will now correctly spawn the pukis. (tracent) - wyrm mobs that fly will now wake up they begin to fly. (tracent) [#3531], (TracentEden)
- Mythril dagger is now able to be desynthed. [#3530], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Cancelling a dialog during brygid the sytlist returns will no longer lead to brygid soft locking clients. (tiberon) [#3528], (TiberonKalkaz, Tiberon)
- Addresses issue where players were unable to flag i can hear a rainbow. addresses issue where players were unable to progress quest the root of the problem (blm af) [#3527], (hookstar)
- Converts the following quests to interaction framework the holy crest  a craftsman work chasing quotas knight stalker [#3526], (hookstar)
- The original implementation works on asb and not horizon [#3523], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Slightly reduced the price of hare meat when purchasing from the cooking guild (hugin) [#3522], (clanofartisans)
- Devotion now correctly heals 25% of users hp [#3521], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Gil obtained using mug and dropped from peg powler is now correct. [#3519], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Fixed many items that wouldn't display ah listings such as shuriken pouches (hugin) [#3518], (clanofartisans)
- Fixes homepoint locations (frank) fixes dynamis dialog issues (frank) [#3517], (Frankie-hz)
- - the orbitals in the zm16 bcnm can now be acted upon and function correctly. (tracent) - monsters (mainly beastmen in dynamis) will no longer be able to parry player's ranged weapon skills. (tracent) - the ranged weapon skills coronach, detonator, namas arrow, and empyreal arrow now have an era accurate bonus of 100 ranged accuracy added. note this accuracy is added after the ranged accuracy distance correction is applied. - the weapon skill catastrophe will now ignore utsusemi and blink shadows as in era. (tracent) - the ability barrage now behaviors correctly against monsters with shadows. (tracent) - jormungand now starts to use bloodweapon at the correct hp level. (tracent) [#3516], (TracentEden)
- Ds+1 should now drain as much hp as ds. [#3515], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- A mercenary life now has a jp midnight wait before player can complete mission. [#3514], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Easterly winds now has a jp midnight wait before player can get the cutscene in ru'lude gardens. [#3513], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Nothing to say [#3512], (Frankie-hz)
- Nothing to say [#3511], (Frankie-hz)
- - poisona ring can now be crafted. (tracent) - the required weather conditions for completing the quest wish upon a star have been adjusted. (tracent) - the magic attack building of macan gadangan from the bcnm wild wild whiskers has been lowered to be more retail accurate. (tracent) - gration now intimidates players at an era accurate rate. (tracent) - xolotl and his pets now build resistance to light based sleep. note that xolotl (but not his pets) has a special resistance building mechanism that is different from other mobs that build resistance. (tracent, siknoz) - monsters (including nms) that can be fished up should no longer go missing from fishing pools due to certain conditions. (tracent) [#3509], (TracentEden)
- Rising sun will now be able to be desynthed. [#3507], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Gold earring will now be able to be desynthed. [#3506], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- No player facing changes [#3504], (dallano)
- No player facing changes [#3500], (dallano)
- No player facing changes. [#3499], (dallano)
- Implements other area quest a generous general to interaction framework. [#3497], (hookstar)
- Sanction obtainable from imperial gate guards only after completion of "immortal sentries" mission. [#3491], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- Talisman cape and talisman obi are both now usable. [#3475], (nixyyyy, Nixy)
- - adjusted hq conditions for beastmen kings [#3468], (sarca571ca)
- We dont need this [#3427], (Frankie-hz, Xaver-DaRed, ThornyFFXI)
