## AirSkyBoat Changelog (2023-03-23)
- Generated changelog for merge [#2909], (Shozokui)
- Adding lua binding for adding/deleting immunities [#2908], (Frankie-hz)
- Fix dynamis-bastok so that effigy shields spawn and gu'dha effigy provides a time extension (rather than a different incorrect statue). [#2907], (TracentEden)
- Fix /assist on players so that it will only target an enemy if the /assist target is engaged. (wintersolstice) [#2906], (WinterSolstice8)
- Fix useable equipment that gives the enchantment status effect (for example high breath mantle). also removing powder boots no longer removes the flee status effect. [#2904], (TracentEden)
- - fixes damage thresholds and damage taken on the euvhi family.  (frank) [#2902], (Frankie-hz)
- Players below level 6 will no longer cause the region they died in to lose conquest influence to the beastmen. (wintersolstice) [#2901], (WinterSolstice8)
- Fixes an issue which was causing parrying to be inconsistent across a single attack. this fix does not change parrying rate or parrying skill up rate in any way. [#2897], (TiberonKalkaz, Tiberon)
- Fixes various onmobdeath accidental multicalls [#2896], (TiberonKalkaz, Tiberon)
- Updates full break duration to accurate sources. extended duration from 90/120/150 to 180/240/300 [#2895], (TiberonKalkaz, Tiberon)
- Fixes panzer percival to not cast spells [#2893], (TiberonKalkaz, Tiberon)
- Addresses issue where some players may not be able to complete the quest undying flames. [#2885], (hookstar)
- N/a server development only. [#2882], (LoxleyXI, Loxley)
- N/a server development only. [#2881], (LoxleyXI, Loxley)
- Omit: adds missing gm commands for managing dynamis (shozokui) [#2876], (Shozokui)
- Fix the shock spikes effect of mother globe to do the correct damage [#2874], (TracentEden)
- - the droprate of items from the nm carmine dobsonfly has been increased. (critical) [#2872], (CriticalXI, Critical)
- Addresses issue where player turning in quest completion item for completion, if not at correct weather/time, would not get correct dialog. [#2871], (hookstar)
- Correct dragoon wyvern weapon damage formula to match data capture from retail (wintersolstice) [#2869], (WinterSolstice8)
- [drk] correct souleater + ws, standardize souleater formulas [#2868], (WinterSolstice8)
- Fixed diabolos (in cop 3-5 bcnm darkness named and quest bcnm waking dreams) to correctly draw-in entire party and have physical damage reduction. [#2867], (TracentEden)
- + mob avatar 2hour ability has had its damage corrected (frank) [#2866], (Frankie-hz)
- + removes original udmg mods so it doesn't count them twice. this was never removed from when we made udmg mods the unresisted mods at the end of the calcs. [#2862], (Frankie-hz)
- Fix several dawn fight issues [#2829], (TracentEden)
- Converts a test of true love and lovers in the dark [#2797], (hookstar)
